hello friend it's aaron young here from
define digital academy and i am your 15
000 hour google ads master today i want
to talk to you and teach you how to do
proper keyword research
for your google ads campaign i actually
sort of call this teaching keyword
research done right
and this is actually a really really
important element
for you to be able to have success in
google ads it's actually so important
that before you even dive in and set up
and start your google ads campaign you
need to do your keyword research first
and so much so that you need to have all
of your keywords broken into different
campaigns and ad groups
and the reason for this is so that you
can actually use what i call the one
keyword theme strategy which is a
strategy strategy in google ads which
just gonna set your campaign up and
business for success but before we get
into the teaching today what i wanted to
also let you know is if you stick around
to the end of this video is that i
actually want to give you a free gift
and this is actually my google ads
optimization checklist i've been doing
google ads now for as i said 15 000
hours and 12 years
and this is a system and a process that
i put together quite a few years ago and
it's actually a system of process that i
still use today i use it on all of my
campaigns that i manage from my really
small clients who are spending under a
thousand dollars a month all the way up
to my my large multinational clients who
are some of them are spending up to 85
a month what this process and checklist
actually takes you through is it gives
you a guide and a reminder and also a
schedule on what optimizations you need
to complete every 72 hours every week
every month and every three months so
it's a really valuable tool and i want
to give you that for free all you need
to do is just stick around to the end of
the training so i can let you know how
you can access that and implement it in
your google ads campaign so
let's get right into it i'm going to
jump into a screen share and start
taking you through keyword research done
right
keyword research done right
now despite what you think you actually
don't start this process in in google
ads the the way that i actually start
this process and the way that i've
always found i've had the most success
in google ads campaigns is when i've
actually completed before i've even gone
into google ads and used the google
search keyword tool that i've actually
gone in and you have a quick look this
is the website that we're going to be
doing some keyword research today this
is a pest control and also an air
conditioning business based here in
southeast queensland they service
brisbane gold coast and sunshine coast
to complete their keyword research what
what we actually do and what i would
recommend is that you actually first go
into google docs so i just use google
docs you could use
you could even write it down if you
wanted to but i find google docs is
easier so that way you can copy and
paste it into the google's search uh
keyword tool
so essentially what i've just looked at
is you know they're doing pest control
and then i've just written in the
different uh location modifiers so pest
control sunshine coast brisbane is
switch gold coast and then air
conditioner cleaning and then also those
location modifiers that's what i've put
down as my baseline keyword research
so then what we actually do do is we
then go into google ads and you select
on this tools and settings
button and then you go over into
planning and then you go into keyword
planner
so we wait for that to to load up
now you've got to have two options
you're going to have this first option
which is discover new keywords and then
the second option is the gets get search
volume and forecasts now as i said
before the the ideas the keywords that
i've written down are just a start so
that i always use this discover new
keywords and the reason for that is
because i'm just i've already got some
ideas but i want to see and look at what
are some other potential ideas that i
haven't thought of from what i've
originally put down so we click on
discover new keywords now if you want to
you can also either start with keywords
or start with a website the reason why i
actually do start with keywords is
because it actually gives you the option
to also put in the website so i'll
generally just cut and copy the website
and we paste that in here
and then the other thing that we do do
from here is that i get all of my
keyword ideas
i copy them
and then you just
straight away paste them into here now
one thing i do want to let you know and
as you can see here is that you
i've actually pasted the limit of 10
keywords but you've only got a maximum
of 10 keyword ideas that you can put in
which isn't a problem because you can
you know you can repeat this process so
if you've got more than 10 keyword ideas
you have to do this in a couple of a
couple of go so first you put in those
keyword ideas that you've got and then
you just quite quickly go down to this
get results button
and then what google ads will start
doing is it basically goes through and
and looks out at your potential keywords
so what you need to look at here is that
you've got you've got some different
columns so you've got the keywords by
relevance so up this top sections it's
got the keywords you provided and then
it actually goes into different keyword
ideas and these are ones that we haven't
written down but that google is
recommending because they're very close
to what we've what we've got in now when
you look at through here is it it's got
the average monthly searches so you can
see here for pest control now this is
obviously australia wide
i could break that down to queensland or
i could break that down to brisbane and
gold coast but to be honest with you and
this at this part of what we're really
just looking at is we're just looking at
trends and what are the trends i want to
see is firstly the average monthly
searches
what i'm looking at through there and if
you scroll over you can kind of see
what's what's happening and this kind of
gives you an idea of what's happening
seasonally so you can see here pest
control's got two thousand two hundred
searches on average per month but you
know moving into the summer months
november it does get up uh higher to you
know thirty three thousand and just to
that thirty five thousand now
because i'm doing this in australia
that's our summer months so it makes
sense that people are wanting to get
outside more so they look to get their
pest control happening and also before
christmas and those things so there are
the seasonal keywords so it's important
to note that these monthly searches it's
not that 22 000 surges every month it's
that's what the average has been over
the previous 12 months and then when
you're looking at this competition
obviously it's got three levels low
medium high
pretty self-explanatory obviously you
know it just lets you know how many
other people are actually bidding on
this keyword and whether there's a lot
of advertisers or only a couple now then
you'll see these two columns the first
one is the top of top of big page the
which is the low range and the top of
bid page which is the high range
now the bid is what you would call your
cost per click so this is giving you an
idea of what is the
estimated cost per click or the amount
that you're going to have to pay to win
each of those auctions for that keyword
now the difference between the low range
and the high range is the the low range
is so the top of page is your top four
positions and so the low range is
positions three and four and the top of
page is positions one and two so you can
see here there is actually can actually
be quite a large variance between you
know that position four rank and also
that position one and two rank so that's
uh the columns explained from there and
then it's just a matter of going through
and going okay what are the what are the
keywords that we want to
select now you can see through here
uh all of the ones that that i write
down i have got some good volume so i
want to include those
but what i what i do also look at is you
can see here for this
vast one of pest control and also this
other one of air conditioner cleaning
now with pest control i actually i've
decided not to select this one you could
or you you know you could leave this up
to you but the reason why i haven't
selected it is because i'm looking at
here when i you know that's a really
really high competition and it's also a
really really high bid so it's going to
cost a lot whereas we look here some of
these more targeted keywords like pest
control sunshine coast and brisbane
we've got some really good search
volumes but the the the clicks are a
little bit more a little bit cheaper as
well
and same for now but when we look at air
conditioning cleaning it's it's not as
high so i'm happy to keep that in
especially considering that that cost
per click is down at about that two to
six dollars range which for this this
example is is really really good now
what we're actually starting to look at
here as well is there's other keyword
ideas that we can include
is this pest control near me which i'm
not not including and the reason for it
once again it comes back to volume if
these were all really really low and
we're only getting you know sort of 40
or 90 searches a month uh i would
include that
but i'm not doing that because it's just
not required exterminator look that's
another keyword theme that i could go
into if i wanted to but to start off
with you know when i look when i'm
looking at it i just go we've got heaps
of heaps of search volumes so we don't
need to add those in and then i just
start going look i know this company
doesn't do termite treatments so we
we're not including that
you know we don't do b so i don't need
to control that
and then you just basically start going
through and going is there any other of
these keywords which we think would be
worthwhile
ac cleaning i don't go there yet that's
that's worthwhile
aircon cleaning some of the variations
and then ants no we don't do ants
so basically i select those and then the
next option is is that you actually want
to add these to your plan so
to do this i always create a new ad
group and it's just a matter i just go
99 people
we create this ad group
and then it's a matter of just adding
those keywords
we wait for this to add and then you can
see here that these are in our plan and
these are saved
now if you wanted to you can actually go
back and say for example air
conditioning maintenance service you can
add these in so you can basically delete
a couple of these if you wanted to
and then you can add in some of these
extra variations if you wanted to just
to continue to do the search so once
you've done that what you actually need
to do then is you need to actually go up
into your forecast
and if you want to have a quick look you
know you can have a quick look here of
what it's what it's it's going to cost
you for those current keywords you know
you can use this sliding bar so let's
just say you do have a set budget now
this budget is per month and let's just
say that your budget was set at 2 000 a
month
you can just bring that back down
and then you can actually see you know
how how the clicks change depending on
your different budgets from there so the
next option is is that you do actually
have an option to create your campaign
but i don't i don't use that option and
the reason for it and as this is what i
said in the intro is i like to actually
use what's called the one keyword theme
method so to to do that and essentially
what this this strategy is is that we're
actually breaking all of those
individual keywords into different
campaign segments and ad group segments
and the reason for why we do that is it
it's two-fold one it actually makes
optimizing your campaign
a lot easier especially for a company
like this where they have some really
specific service areas so you know if
you're not familiar with the brisbane
area you know the gold coast through to
the sunshine coast you're looking at i
ran about a three and a half four hour
drive away from from those locations so
so it makes sense to segment those into
different campaigns and the other reason
for that depending on the way that the
business is structured if you've got
different budgets you can then you can
then set those budgets to different
areas and another another real good
really good option for it is that when
it comes to your reporting you can
really start easily breaking down and
going look we're getting really good
results in brisbane we need to work a
little bit more in sunshine coast so you
get your p you get my picture is that by
creating it now just putting it all in
one campaign you're just going to make a
lot harder for future optimizations down
the track so what i do is i actually
download this
and you can either download it into a
csv or a google sheets personally i find
it easier to download it into a csv but
for this so we can keep it online and
you just download it into a google sheet
so if you want to you can give the sheet
a sheet a name but we're just going to
call 99 people
can't type keyword
sheet and then we download it
yeah as i said if you wanted to you
could download this directly into a csv
file and then we just open up our sheet
now what you can see through here is
this is basically exported all of our
keywords that we've that we've that
we've added to our account
so look if you want to i just do a
little bit of a tidy up i delete these
columns
don't need these two
so you just do a little bit of a clean
up just so that you can order it
how how you want to order it and then
it's just a matter of so you can see
these bring this out so then you've got
you you've got your core data that you
need there and then the other thing
that's why i do like putting it into
this google sheet is that you can
actually see through here is you've
actually got the monthly volume per
month so you can actually see where it
actually does does start to change so
you know as we saw before there is a bit
of a ramp up between august and
september
i'm building it until october so you can
see the see the different trends there
and that's just another benefit of
downloading it into a google sheet so
then what i do from there is that i
basically i add two columns
in before
and we we're going to do two things one
we're going to call this our campaign
column
and then the next one we're going to
actually call our ad group
if you if you're not aware you are
really really new to google google ads
we've got some extra videos on this
coming up but so your campaign is
basically a little bit of a higher order
than your ad group so what what i would
recommend for this campaign is i'm going
to break my campaigns down by my
location and the reason for that is
because the it just allows this client
to be able to set different budgets in
different regions and then also they can
report better in those sections so
essentially what we're doing there
remember that we had we had the
different regions we've got as you can
see brisbane
we've also got gold
coast it's which
and then it's just a matter of basically
we're looking at this two we can see
that there's two main different ad ad
groups that we're working on there would
be the air conditioning ad group and
then there would also be the pest
control
so for brisbane
we would go
i would just call this something like
pest control
brisbane
and then this one would be we can put it
down to aircon brisbane
now the reason why i've done that as
well is that this way when you're
looking at your campaign in a at a
campaign level you can see how
brisbane's going but then once you see
that you actually don't need to go into
that campaign to see how the different
how the different keyword themes are
going because you know that in your air
conditioning brisbane care campaign
you're only targeting keywords that say
air conditioning brisbane same with your
pest control brisbane you're only
targeting keywords that say pest control
ipswich now how this really helps is
that when you go to actually write your
ad copy you can make it really really
specific because you know that your only
targeting pest control turns for
brisbane so in your headlines you can
then rather than just saying pest
control and it being general you can
actually put in there pest control
brisbane versus your gold coast ad
groups where you can actually say pest
control gold coast so by breaking it
down and only having one keyword theme
one single keyword theme in each of your
ad groups it means that when you come to
actually write your ad copy you you can
become really really specific and really
really targeted and there's so much data
out there that shows that the more
specific and targeted that your ad copy
messaging is it's going to increase your
click-through ratio
i've gone through and done just a little
bit more cleaning up so you can see here
that i've actually added in the
different campaigns and then the
different ad groups and you can actually
see here that we've actually got some
general terms here so what i've done and
would do is i would go general
and then you can see there's two main
themes here there's ac cleaning and then
these ones remember we didn't include
the
actual pest control because we decided
not to when we're doing the research but
you can actually see there that i've
then also opened up a general ac
cleaning campaign if we wanted to target
a sort of more general area or look at
some new areas that we new locations
that we may want to grow the business
into so essentially what you can also
then do from there is if you wanted to
you can just select everything and
obviously you can use your your saw
options
and we just want to sort this by the
campaign and then you've got all of you
so basically that's done you've got your
campaign structure and your ad group
structure in a really really clean nice
format and so that when you actually go
to build your campaign it's really
really easy you've done your keyword
research you've already built out your
campaigns and your ad groups and it's
just a matter of copying and pasting
that into your google ads now in this
video i i will actually include a link
to a video where i actually do describe
how to actually set up your your google
ads campaign we go through that in a
step-by-step process and you will
actually need this list so you can add
that through but
go through have a have a look you know
have a look and try and go through this
process and and look if you do have any
questions or you got any comments please
leave them in the comment section below
i'll be more than happy to come through
and answer any questions that you do
have
but remember before we finish up i just
as a as my way of saying thank you for
just being part of this teaching and
following through this whole video is
that i've got a free gift that i want to
give you and this is my google ads
optimization checklist template and
remember as i said is that this is a
template that i'm still using today and
it actually breaks down and gives you a
guide of what you need to do every 72
hours every week every month and every
three months to make sure that you're
optimizing your google ads campaign in
the best way possible always you need to
go to is the defined digital academy the
google ads checklist i'll pop that link
down in the in the information
description section below as well and we
look forward to seeing you on our next
training thank you